# Docker Compose

Docker Compose is a powerful tool that allows you to define and manage multi-container Docker applications. It simplifies the process of running and orchestrating multiple Docker containers by using a declarative YAML file.

This guide provides a list of handy Docker Compose commands that can help you in managing your Dockerized applications efficiently.
Prerequisites

Before using Docker Compose, ensure that you have Docker and Docker Compose installed on your system. You can download and install them from the official Docker website.

## Basic Commands

### `up`

The `up` command is used to build, create, and start all the containers defined in your Docker Compose file. It pulls the necessary images from Docker Hub (if not already present) and starts the containers.

```shell
docker compose up
```

### `down`

The `down` command stops and removes all the containers defined in your Docker Compose file. It also removes the associated networks, volumes, and images, but preserves the defined volumes.

```shell
docker compose down
```

### `build`

The `build` command is used to build or rebuild the images defined in your Docker Compose file. It rebuilds the images if they already exist or builds them from scratch.

```shell
docker compose build
```

### `start`

The `start` command starts the containers that are defined in your Docker Compose file without building new images or recreating containers.

```shell
docker compose start
```

### `stop`

The `stop` command stops the containers that are defined in your Docker Compose file without removing them.

```shell
docker compose stop
```

## Container Management

### `ps`

The `ps` command displays the status of the containers defined in your Docker Compose file. It shows the running or stopped state, the associated service name, and the container ID.

```shell
docker compose ps
```

### `logs`

The `log` command displays the logs generated by the containers defined in your Docker Compose file. It shows the combined output of all containers or the output of a specific service.

```shell
docker compose logs
docker compose logs `<service-name>`
```

### `exec`

The exec command allows you to execute a command inside a running container defined in your Docker Compose file.

```shell
docker compose exec <service-name> <command>
```

### `restart`

The `restart` command restarts the containers defined in your Docker Compose file.

```shell
docker compose restart
```

### `pause` & `unpause`

The `pause` command pauses the containers defined in your Docker Compose file, suspending all processes inside them. The unpause command resumes the paused containers.

```shell
docker compose pause
docker compose unpause
```

## Other Useful Commands

### `config`

The `config` command validates and displays the composed configuration. It checks the syntax of the Docker Compose file and shows the parsed configuration.

```shell
docker compose config
```

# `pull`

The `pull` command pulls the latest images for the services defined in your Docker Compose file, ensuring that you have the most up-to-date images.

```shell
docker compose pull
```
### `top`

The top command displays the running processes of the containers defined in your Docker Compose file, similar to the top command in Linux.

```shell
docker compose top
```

### `down -v`

The down -v command is similar to docker-compose down, but it additionally removes the volumes defined in your Docker Compose file.

```shell
docker compose down -v
```

## Conclusion

These handy Docker Compose commands will assist you in managing your Dockerized applications effectively. Experiment with different commands and explore more features provided by Docker Compose to simplify your container management workflow.

Remember to refer to the official Docker documentation for detailed information on Docker Compose and its capabilities.

Note: Make sure you replace `service-name` with the actual name of the service defined in your Docker Compose file.

## Migrate to Compose V2
If you are still using `docker-compose` and not `docker compose`, you are using an Docker Compose V1 and you should [Migrate to Compose V2](https://docs.docker.com/compose/migrate/)

### Backwards support of `docker-compose`
In order to continue using `docker-compose` (e.g. when copy & pasting from outdated docs etc.).

You can create an alias:
```bash
alias docker-compose='docker compose'
```
